[Music]
Tetro Grammaton.
Tetro.
[Music]
I'm the kid in school that uh I love
technology. I love computers, so exactly
as nerdy as you would imagine. But I was
also a kid that always uh ended up
figuring out what everyone else was
into. So I would buy a lot of I don't
know magic eye books or something and
then sell them to to to my classmates.
So I like technology and to be able to
do more with technology, I need money
and to make money I uh sell something
for profit. And so so this was sort of
through line to my childhood. Business
was to support your technology habit.
Exactly. Jensen Wong was a founder of
like Nvidia who's like now one of the
biggest companies. I I I got got to meet
him at some point a few years ago. And
then um I I told him that um to buy his
first product when I was uh you know my
teens, I I actually literally went to
the hospital in Germany. They they pay
you to donate blood and I have all
positive which apparently they were very
excited about. And so so that was my
first uh product market fit was
I I bled for his uh for his product is
what I told him. And he looks at me and
says, "You would be surprised how often
I hear stories like this." I like wow
you know you have a great product then
so um so anyway so I um I I I needed
money so many years later beginning of
Shopify so this is the end like in 2004
I moved to Canada with my now wonderful
wife how did you decide to move to
Canada so she's my wife is Canadian so
as soon as I could I left school I
finished 10th grade and when was 16 I
started a apprentichip at a company
called Semens Germany has this wonderful
uh vocational education system which
where you can apprentice as a computer
programmer. So I actually I left school
4 days of a week we would be working in
a company and one day of a week we would
go to trade school and like I had a
meister who I worked for who took me on
his swing. like wonderful 200 lb long
gray hair in a ponytail uh like coming
into work on his BMW motorcycle every
day and like everyone else wearing suits
and he was like he was so competent that
no one could impose any kind of uh dress
code on him. So a huge inspiration for
me and so so I I was studying under
under him and learned the ropes and
learned programming like essentially a
blue collar craftsmanship. I actually
think this is a beautiful way to learn
about technology and worked wonderfully
for me. So now I meet my wife. We lived
in Germany for a year and then she went
to Canada to uh finish her studies and I
decided to move with her because at this
point I heard about Silicon Valley and
California. I knew where it was on a map
at least. I've never been there but in
Canada was closer to Silicon Valley than
Germany. So I'm like this seems like the
right direction. Let's go. And like I
sort of imagined I would end up in San
Francisco, but then Shopify happened and
like that got me busy. Did you have any
ideas yet about starting a business or
anything or you just know that you're a
programmer? Yeah. Uh I love the craft of
programming things and um I was looking
for a programming job and I I got people
to offer me jobs but then I found out
that I mean I was there on a visitor's
visa. Turns out they don't allow you to
work when you're on a visitor's visa. I
tried to figure out how to get a work
permit and then that seemed really hard.
the lawyer when I I talked with a lawyer
friend and what he sort of taught me on
the way out because I was you know was
dismayed I guess I can't do any work and
he said well you could start your own
company it just sort of as a throw I had
not been for the visa you might not have
started a company you would have gotten
a job I think so I I I I'd like to think
I might have seized another opportunity
at some point but like not this one and
this ended up being a really good idea
and I kind of love that idea my my wife
Fiona is was wonderful person rock of my
life is uh she was working 14 hours a
day studying right she she was doing her
degrees
and I just told her you know what I I
think I'm going to just start something
and she said like hey this is the
perfect time for us to do this let's
jump and so it was fairly modest I I
started a business selling snowboards
like an online store I'm like I
understand the internet seems like
that's where things are going I did not
know that you know there in 200 doesn't
the big com crash like pets.com like
like all the companies that died were
like that bad like ordering pets.com
ordering uh pet food over internet all
all these things were like went up
became worth a huge amount and then
crashed because because they crashed so
it was nuclear winter in technology
everyone was like clearly the internet
didn't work or um e-commerce or all
these things that crashed in.com they're
e-commerce stores I didn't know this
anyway I built this little snowboard
business called Snow Devil. Until then,
like all the other stores I saw were
just sort of a grid of products and
there was like no context and I wanted
to tell a story, right? like we we got
snowboards, you could buy them, there
was a buy button, this kind of thing um
in a checkout and all these things you
sort of associate with the internet now.
But the description of a product was
like basically me and my co-founders
like or friends telling a story of like
here's what happened the day we took
this one out, you know, like this just
new snow in Canada. It's like snows for
half a year or something like this. So,
um, new snow. We we took this snowboard
for these reasons and then we went, uh,
like out on the mountain and Bob got
hurt and we spent most of the day in
hospital. Like literally just like we
just like chronicled. It's it's like
almost ended up not being about a
product, but what people liked is just
that real stories, right? It's like a
diary. Exactly. Because it's it's just
like a lot of times people end up
purchasing products because they
actually they fell in love with the
thing it stands for, what's behind it,
you know, like the people it supports
and so on. It's like almost a vote for
something that they uh find valuable
even beyond the product that they end up
getting. So that was fun. You also
become a trusted source when you're
telling these stories. People trust you.
You're telling them personal stories
about yourself. It's just not all good
stories. Exactly. It's like it's um the
day didn't work. We didn't get to use
the snowboard, but we really wanted to.
It's like actually also really
interesting. It's authentic. It's a real
story. And um um like a friend. Exactly.
Like talking to a friend. And and so
again, we're talking in internet years,
2004 is another world. It's like it's
like it might as well be 100 years ago,
right? The most fun thing that was going
on from the perspective of us techies
was we were exploring this new medium.
But this is like we we now connected all
the computers. Every day more people
would be using this. But we we haven't
found out how to communicate like what
are the patterns? What is the what is
the language? What's the aesthetic of
this medium? So just contributing
something different ended up being just
like fun. And so people noticed and you
know I didn't use an off chef software.
I just I just built the software I
wanted. And at some point some gentleman
from Pennsylvania ordered a snowboard.
And it's like
this is going to sound silly but like
what my software did is send an email
that someone placed an order. Now at
some point in the months before I wrote
that email, right? Just I wrote the
software. I had to write the email that
it would send. So I knew exactly what
the email would say if it would arrive
at some point. But then it would arrive
in my inbox and I just like I remember
everything about that day, right? It's
just like felt like the day where I went
from being a like a builder to an
entrepreneur, right? Like someone else
saw value in the thing. One person one
person engaged. Yes. How long had you
been doing it at this point? Like I
started 4 months earlier. So for four
months there's no feedback. No feedback.
And then you get one customer. One
customer. And it's proof of concept.
It's proof of concept. And it's just
like someone like people do not want to
share money. When when they do use their
money for something, it is a huge like
is a vote for everything behind this
this thing they are doing. They want the
product. Yes. But they also deem the
story valuable in a very real way.
People do vote for more of that in the
future. I think you're deeming the
entire enterprise as something that you
would like to see more of in the future.
Although we don't think about it like
this and so it is a profound
thinking about it that way. It was a
couple years later like I I think like
maybe 10 years in or so I I I was like
okay I built this what do I want to do
next? I sat down was like why am I doing
this? And I I I just realized like that
moment I've had about becoming an
entrepreneur
that the thing I built afterwards and
then you know Shopify is now has
millions of businesses. I can help other
people have that same experience. I just
think like I want to vote for a world
where more people are entrepreneurs. I
think so you realize the business wasn't
selling the snowboards. It was providing
Yeah. the system so that anyone could do
what you just did. Exactly. I I wanted I
wanted to share this. I had such a good
experience with this and I realized you
know what yes there was other software
for e-commerce but no one has sat down
and built software for new entrepreneurs
and that's a very different thing. Up
until this point all the retailers on
who were on the internet were already
rich companies that were established and
they worked with some service provider
and they got a version of whatever they
were doing online and paid many millions
of dollars. I want to make it so that
like for a couple bucks everyone can
just go and like give it a try. I want I
want people to like reach for their own
independence doing the lunch breaks.
It's for the do-it-yourself community
really. Exactly. Like the mission of
Shopify is cause more entrepreneurship
in your book and and you do this by
lowering the friction. Like if if if it
if if it's required that you happen to
have spent your entirety of your uh
teenage years in dark rooms cultivating
the craftsmanship involved in in
computer programming, then that is a
completely ridiculous barrier that you
put in front of people who actually have
something to contribute some product to
share with the world. Right? That's an
unreasonable ask. And so lowering the
barrier for entry actually causes more
consumption, causes more people to do
it. So in a way, you're like a
collaborator with the people who make
things. That's right. You're their
technical collaborator and you provide
them the service if they don't have the
skill set to do it and make it really
easy. Exactly. And and importantly, we
are not the thing. We are actually just
pushed from behind. Shopify is
invisible. Exactly. It's invisible. It's
it's in fact I'd like to think it has
significant positive impact on the
story, but it's not written in the
story. It's it's it's your superpower.
You don't go to Shopify to use Shopify.
If you've bought anything on the
internet and it wasn't on Amazon, it was
probably a Shopify store. Like Shopify
is all the other small boutiques and and
some of I mean to be fair some of the
customers got really really large in the
they started on Shopify and are now now
massive businesses. But like we would
like people to be su more successful. I
mean, we're reasonably big now and the
best thing we can do to grow our own
business is to make our customers more
successful. So, we are just on the same
side of the table with them and and
that's a that makes the mission so much.
The first non- snowboard business that
got to work through this system. Um, so
I mean to be fair after launching it was
a wonderful This is 2006. It's when
Shopify launched. I'll say for the first
year or so it was an like amazing good
platform for other people who wanted to
also build snowboard stores and nothing
else. Like I hoped it was generic enough
for other people to use it and it really
really took more a lot more work to um
make it uh work for other industries.
How did people know about it? It really
was very word of mouth in in a in a
sense that like because of Snow Devil
and because it was so different, people
kept sending me emails about can can I
license the software? I want to do
something similar. And this is actually
how the idea really was born. And so
what I then was doing was actually
continuing telling the story of while I
was building it and the decisions we
like I I was making about how I wanted
to work and I just tried to teach what I
have learned that sort of created an
initial group of people who were all
ready to go want like they tried
something. Some of those businesses are
still active. This was now man that is
like that's a long time ago like 2006.
So we almost 20 years ago now. I mean
there's really big business like Fashion
Nova is a great customer. Alo Alo Yoga
and um Allirds is a company that's
selling Shopify and then public uh as a
company fix here in LA is just
wonderful. Have any companies that
already had their own sales technology
shut theirs down to use uh Shopify? Not
for a very long time. So this is uh when
we're talking chronologically like 2006
was launched and then it wasn't a good
business partly because well it turns
out there's a reason why no one's built
software for for new entrepreneurs
because new entrepreneurs
well they don't yet know really what
they're doing. They might not have their
products. They probably have no money.
They really require a lot of customer
support. So Shopify would have uh lost
every single business plan competition
that was ever created. Right? like it's
like just a it's actually kind of a bad
idea from this sort of traditional
business perspective
and the big business we're just not
trusting some like two free guys up in
Canada like we we ask people to trust us
with their livelihoods right like it's
like we are now like if Shopify is down
the business is not operating right
that's a huge responsibility which we
were asking for a lot did you feel that
responsibility right from the beginning
like right from the beginning every day
since it's it's a huge responsibility
it's super motivating too I mean
beginning was tough like costs were
super low. We were living with my my
parents-in-law with um at in my um in my
wife's uh childhood room which he could
use rentree and so that that was very
helpful. And the thing that changed was
my wonderful father-in-law. It's a he's
a bureaucrat. He work for government on
a government salary. like I we were
running out of money of course and uh I
I I couldn't meet payroll and it was
getting very close and then our evening
conversation he just wrote me a check to
to to pay payroll and he kept doing this
for almost a year because like I was
just married with Fiona we were living
in their house so it was like I just
like will never forget this like
incredible I I found out he took a
reverse mortgage on our houses for doing
this um in in telling you I was aware
how much of my family was like invested
in this company uh already and I still
didn't know I only found out years later
how real that really was. So I had
incredibly generous people helping along
the way. I was in Silicon Valley uh
which I then finally made it to uh just
for on a visit and um the way this was
set up in 2008 was
all these fantastical
storied investment house Benchmark and
Excel and Sequoia they were all on one
street right like this road um which is
like again for European like that's
unsurprising I would have imagined that
all happening downtown so I I I was
staying at a hostel somewhere close by
and I bought a bicycle of Craigslist
like I had a meeting the first meeting I
couldn't answer a single question
because I had no idea I I I built
software I was like cosplaying and being
a business person basically right like
so he had lots of patient with me the
venture capitalist with he asked me all
these questions I I had no idea how to
answer them but I did write down all the
terms he was asking me and then later on
I used the neighbor's Wi-Fi to look up
on Wikipedia what this actually is and
then I like I figured out I I I looked
into the data and could answer one more
question in the next meeting. Right. So
it just like went like this one step at
a time. Yeah. Then I was there and then
right when I was sort of actually got
into an interest one firm gave me a uh
term sheet but it was conditional on
moving to Silicon Valley which I don't
like when people tell me what to do.
It's like this is very very natural. I
would rather do the opposite. Um kind of
uh it's funny because you moved to
Canada because it was closer to Silicon
Valley. Yes. And your it sounded like
your dream was to someday get to live in
Silicon Valley. So So but when they said
you have to you said no. I I think my
wife is very wise at uh using this
against me. Like if she really doesn't
want me to do something then she tell
she she she she understands the reverse
psychology p perspective and someone
sort of accidentally tripped over it.
But it it also was an interesting
experience because so I I was meeting
with the partners at this firm. This is
sort of a thing you practice for I
suppose. That was a day when uh Lehman
Brothers was collapsing be it's like all
this another financial crisis almost
like this period. Again this is sort of
odd business history events kind of
thing. And they were basically saying
yeah so that sounds nice but like yeah
no one is going to have money. this
we're going to go in a bad time
recession everyone's probably going to
go out of business. So I flew back and
um I thought we were dead and some
something really funny happened like
suddenly just more people started
signing up.
Why do you think that is? What changed?
I think because it turns out that more
people
dream or want to be entrepreneurs than
than we think. It's kind of in the back
of everyone's mind their plan B for
their career. And then when times went
tough and people lost their jobs in
finance, plan B becomes plan A. And like
people said, okay, well, I lost my job.
I'm going to go try building this
business I always wanted to build. And
so at this point, we were ready for
this. And we we this is what we trained
for and like help people build the
business or take the business that's now
struggling locally. your parents artisal
leather belt business and just like
maybe see if there's an audience of
people who want this kind of thing
online, right? And so so in some ways
the crash may have helped you. Uh it
absolutely did. It made the company.
It's like that's really interesting. It
it's just like it was there at the right
moment and suddenly I think we made a
profit for the first time and this I'm
talking I didn't take a salary. Yeah.
Yeah. Ever. And so it's a very uh
virtual uh profit, but making a profit
ever means that it's viable business and
that changes everything, right? So So
that's the the sort of early days about
it and it's just been it's kind of a
blur. Let's keep going from there. Like
what would be the next breakthrough
moment
after 2008? So at this point we were
like we at the end of a financial
crisis. Let's let's put this to 2010
just to pick a round number. Okay. And
um we were I'd say 20 25 people um and
so people do mostly programmers actually
my co-founder Daniel he was our chief
design officer and he's a he's a
brilliant designer right like he really
had a role figuring out how how to make
internet software work. It was a key
thing about Shopify to make everything
so as approachable as possible because
we find when you say a designer Yeah. I
think of designer as a graphic designer.
You don't mean that. I Yeah, I I do. You
we we used to user experience is maybe a
good term for it. Like it's like not
just what it looks like. It's a
technical job. It's a technical job that
involves well a lot. You you you live in
Photoshop in these times as well. You
create the user interfaces that are
approachable. Like if you put yourself
into a mind of our users again you are
reaching for independence which is by
the way a enormous act of courage like
putting yourself out there you will know
more about this than like probably
anyone I ever talked to is frightening
because you are creating something that
is there for the world to judge right
and
at least in our world is like
entrepreneurs usually told their family
or their friends that they're doing it
right so there's a sort of sense of
public failure that people act under. So
they they're
already frightened doing this thing but
hopeful. That's the mindset that most
people use our software in during their
early days.
Are you able to figure out how to do
this? Because if it's convoluted or
complex or like if a software is in a
way of that well it will make you feel
dumb that is never your fault. That is
never your fault. Like people should
never feel dumb because they can't
figure out something in the soft. It's
always the software's fault for at least
our belief. So we tried to figure out
how to make things just more
approachable for the uninitiated. But so
so because every single time we did more
people ended up using it. The venture
capitalists in Silicon Valley that
passed on Shopify in 200 like 78. The
reason why they passed on Shopify is
because they said they did market
analysis and there were only 40,000
online stores in the world during that
time. And um they said well even if you
get half of them I mean that's first of
all really hard to do and then second
it's still that's that's a good business
but maybe not a great business but what
they missed is the reason why there was
40,000 online stores is just because it
was too hard. How hard it was to do.
Exactly. Yeah. The point of entry was
too much. And would you provide only the
online experience or would you help with
shipping or any of the other things?
Yeah, so we did uh we give you an online
store to begin with. I mean today
Shopify does so much more with point of
sale and like all these kind of things.
You can buy products through chatb right
now. It's like as of last week. So but
we we also help with shipping buying the
shipping labels figuring out how to do
this helping you like most of what
Shopify really does is integrate you
into whatever you want to use. you you
work with a warehouse, it integrates
into Shopify. The products will just
leave the warehouse for you when when
then they're being ordered. So, how to
professionalize quote unquote the
businesses? All I have a question. If I
have a business and if I'm selling my
things on Amazon,
person would buy it from Amazon and then
it would ship from the Amazon warehouse
to them. Mhm. With Shopify,
it would be on my own store instead of
Amazon. Mhm. But the back end would work
in a similar way. Is that correct? Yeah.
It it most people start by either self
shipping uh the product like like I had
my snowboards in the garage. I like a
garage full of snowboards and I I saw it
through them. That's not that common
anymore because the infrastructure has
gotten good. there's like this warehouse
you can go to and you give them the
parts and then they ship them and that
all integrates. So for most people it
would be very similar. So it's more do
you want to have something in someone
else's brand or whether you want to have
your own storefront brand. Yeah. Yeah.
Exactly. Would that be the main
difference? That's the main decision
you're making. Exactly. And then the
difference is uh how much money do you
make when you sell? Because when you
when you sell for a marketplace then
like the fees are like a tax often like
15% or something which is razor thin.
many categories of products can't
operate even at those at those those
numbers. Um sometimes they're much
higher but your store is your own thing.
It's like it's a sovereignty. There's
only two things you can own in the
internet. It's like your own domain and
your mailing list. Everything else is uh
leased, right? And so Shopify is a thing
you put on your own domain. It's your
design. You make the full margin and you
can place advertising or you can just
kiss can be your company's homepage and
all these kind of things are possible.
So it plays a role. I'm going to
complicate things a little bit because
they often when they buy something from
Amazon, that order flows into a Shopify
store and then Shopify says Amazon to
send it out. So, this is all there's
like a lot of these components. If you
buy something off Instagram, there's a
lot of crossover. It's the software is
complicated in the like it's never quite
like this one thing it does. The thing
you get when you use Shopify is that you
can then plan to expand your business
however you like, but you always keep
sovereignty over decisions, right? Like
we don't impose on you limitations. In
fact, we have uh 3,000 engineers that
like basically integrate every single
bit of the global world of commerce into
the software and then hide that feature
until you need it. If you if you need
it, make make it so that it's easy to
make the decision of if that's something
you should be doing. So, it's not just
North America. Yeah. Yeah. 175
countries. So, we have customers in.
Yeah. When did it expand to the world?
So, it it would be around these times.
So, like so, so here's what happened in
2010. until this day I was like
programming all day long. It's been pure
16our days. Uh and I loved it, right?
Like it was just like incredible time. I
need to start doing a little bit more
like just figuring out business and and
and setting all these kind of things up.
I I had hopes that I would find a CEO
for a company because I really wanted to
look after technology. But eventually
someone told me just like you will never
find someone who gives as much a
about this as you do and you you have to
run this. And so I'm like, okay, I take
this more seriously and uh learn some of
the um skills. I love actually being bad
at stuff. I find learning the entire
point of it. So I I I I started focusing
a little bit more on this. We had some
money saved and said, "Okay, let's do
some marketing programs. We just
actually didn't really do marketing
until this point. We we didn't have
money for it. I separated out in like
five different programs. We did five
different tests and to see if any of
them would help us grow the business."
And then turns out all five worked. And
I'm like, okay, clearly we need more
money. And so then I started talking
with venture capitalist. We did we
started doing going this route. It we
were actually a six-year-old
profitable company going for venture
capital, which is like totally the wrong
way around. But um it became clear to me
that this was not I I thought of Shopify
a bit as a lifestyle business like as in
like we'll make profit and then we just
sort of tinker on it and it's going to
be reasonably small affair. But like it
became so important to so many people so
quickly that it was very clear that I
had to support it differently. Okay. All
all I said is like I went again back to
venture capitalist. We raised money and
then things just went very way very very
very way very very way very very way
very very way very very way very very
way very very way very very way very
very way very very way very very very
quickly and uh 5 years different when
you got the influx of venture capital
money I think maybe money in general but
definitely venture capital money is an
amplification of everything that's
already there. Basically what I think
what VCs do is they they accelerate the
process of revealing everything that's
actually would have happened otherwise.
And and I think in a way I'm super
thankful that we went this very winding
and non-standard way because we were
just a very good business at this point
really. We made every dollar count like
we just like we really were very very
good at uh being effective. Once we had
the money we were like wow that's a lot
of money. I mean a couple million
dollars is an incredible amount of money
and let's uh invest that just as wisely
even though those are bigger sums um
into these marketing programs we were
sort of setting up and and it just like
turned out there was just this
incredible like this was just a time
where the internet was clearly there
everyone at broadband like e-commerce I
mean there's no one confused about this
the uh the iPhone you know like there
was just a lot of uh happening at the
same time yeah the growth just went
totally into a different gear and So
learned how to to put an executive team
together although lots of our wonderful
people like because we we just sort of
prioritized learning as a you know
thriving on change learn things quickly.
I mean funnily enough no one of us ever
worked in a public company. We didn't
even really like I kind of had to figure
out what that even really is but like we
figured that was a good thing for us to
do. So so in like 2015 we went public.
Uh how was that experience? Profound
actually. I I and I'm like not I'm not
super sentimental but like you know
writing the first line of code for
something and then like what 10 years
later like just ringing the bell at New
York Stock Exchange like this is like
man that that is a surreal surreal
experience. Yeah. This is a significant
percentage of
what's possible to do in the world of
capitalism really right like it's it's
just like and not what you set out to do
it happen. I I call it this this is not
a fortune cookie. It doesn't doesn't
sound very good, but it's like feels
like a collaborative inquiry into a
question and a question is what would
the world look like if like
entrepreneurship would just be
significantly simpler? Would people do
it more? The beautiful thing is that
question is like there's a resounding
yes as an answer and the the degree of a
yes was not absolutely unclear to me.
So much of today's life happens on the
web. Squarespace is your home base for
building your dream presence in an
online world.
Designing a website is easy using one of
Squarespace's best-in-class templates.
With the built-in style kit, you can
change fonts, imagery, margins, and
menus so your design will be perfectly
tailored to your needs.
Discover unbreakable creativity with
Fluid Engine, a highly intuitive drag
and drop editor. No coding or technical
experience is required.
Understand your site's performance with
in-depth website analytics tools.
Squarespace has everything you need to
succeed online.
Create a blog, monetize a newsletter,
make a marketing portfolio,
launch an online store.
The Squarespace app helps you run your
business from anywhere.
Track inventory and connect with
customers while you're on the go.
Whether you're just starting out or
already managing a successful brand,
Squarespace makes it easy to create and
customize a beautiful website.
Visit squarespace.com/tetra
and get started today.
Did you find that the
functional aspects of the technology of
an online store is pretty similar from
company to company? The thing that makes
it different is the story you're telling
within that technology. Is that right?
You're you're spot on. It's exactly
that. It's the first 80% are the same
for everyone, which you can give them
right off the bat and just set them up
well. The next 20% are different for
absolutely everyone. It's the
creativity. It's the it's the
storytelling. It's the narrative. It's
the explaining the reason why you need
why you exist. If you even if you go to
shopify.com today because this is what
we tell our customers on the top there's
a video that's linked which says why do
we exist which is actually like just
what was not there that needed to be
there and why this product have to be
created. And the best entrepreneurs tell
that story. It's like like we live in
Toronto. we go to vacation with my with
my three boys and uh we go to a
Caribbean. It's always like has this
sort of pirate quality to it, right?
Like and we like playing poker. So So I
for whatever reason I found a shop that
sells pirate themed poker sets. I'm like
I don't know how many people there are
that really really want this to exist.
But I'm so excited to play with like
Golden Duploins poker in the Caribbean
with my boy. You're just like this is
it's it's like my my life is not 100
times better because of it, but it's
like that vacation is 10% better. And
that's so worth it, right? And it's
because it's the thing that you want
that probably no one else wants.
Exactly. All of the niches that are
interesting to somebody now have a place
to live. Exactly. Someone's aesthetic
this is a thing that should exist and
there's like a thousand true fans in the
world for for this. Maybe maybe that's
all there is, but like you can make a
living with it. And it turns out the
internet is so big that if you have a
thousand true friends, you have a lot
more because the difference between
someone who appreciates something and
someone who is utterly uh excited about
something is like me right now telling
you about this like it's it's like
there's a virality to uh just good
ideas. And in the traditional vote of
retail that wasn't allowed because a lot
of retail before the internet was um
dictated by merchandising executives. If
you made a product, you had meetings
with the merchandising executives at you
know Walmart and Target and other places
and they had limited chair space and
they were making costbenefit analysis
like how much profit margin does your
product have? How much space do I have?
Where can I put it? Does it you know so
the channel by which products could be
sold was one which optimized away
everything that was interesting for some
but made it appealing to the most. Yes.
And I think a lot of the consumerism
that people sort of vilify is not
because people love stuff too much. It's
because people hate the stuff they get,
right? The quality is not there. And so
what's actually intact again because of
the oneness of a distributed internet
and and this sort of uh global
brainstorm about what are the things
that ought to be existing and the voting
for dollars is that um fully intact
great products can be created and can be
marketed and can be found. And then
there's these incredible systems like I
mean Facebook's advertising engine that
that says hey you can actually probably
find people who like pirate themed and
poker. It's like this is like possible
now you can connect to people who are
utterly delighted and so this is the
engine which is driving it all. So the
idea that if a thousand people in the
world are interested that could be a
good business whereas in the old model
if there were a thousand people in the
world there would be no way to ever
nobody would ever know. Exactly. And it
wouldn't make sense to do it where you
are because where you are you might be
the only person interested. Yes. And
there was no avenue to get to the
others. That's exactly right. If that
would have remained the case, I think
the world would feel very muted compared
to what it is. There's just like a
vibrancy that doesn't exist because
again products matter. People love the
things they buy. Like people buy
wonderful objects for all sorts of
reasons because they want to feel
connected to to the people who created
it because they love the story. One of
our incredible success stories very
early was uh Kylie Jenner with her
lipstick brand and just like it went
incredibly big because when I grew up in
Germany so the star the first was like
Michael Schumer her formula 1 driver and
and and so you would see him on
television all the time and he was being
advertising for toothpaste and it's just
like even to a 9-year-old that felt
dissonant. It's like feels like very
much by doing this he's sort of using
his sort of reputation like he he's
drawing against the bank account of
reputation he built right like he's sort
of using it to benefit the um Kolkata or
whoever now like with Kylie's lipstick
like that that's so her that's like
every transaction is actually additive
like people have a stronger connection
to her and I think it's just very pure
it's a this is why I'm so I'm so excited
like I I hope to do this my entire life
right so was I just like I I love the
space. How difficult was it to scale
along with the interest? We were a
public company for for a few years
learned how to be be a public company.
Growth was like very very good and then
um co started right and so we were under
shelter in place orders basically for a
year and a half in in Canada. So it was
extremely tweaked towards the
overabundance of caution. So that was
difficult for a company of course when
when you work with a lot of small
business against we have we we have
millions of small businesses on Shopify
I mean they are the lifeblood of our
economies right like 80% of the people
60 to 80% of people in every country
work for small businesses but they're
fragmented if you're I don't know any
any of the large companies you can sort
of represent the interests of the entire
uh company really well to like
politicians so we need to know about
your needs or or whatn not the small
businesses have very representation in
this way. One thing that always happens
every during every time of crisis and
certainly during you know.com and and
financial uh uh downturn that I that
I've encountered is that the small
businesses really really suffer. They a
lot of them go out of business very
quickly. They have no credit. They don't
have inventory. They can't absorb a
downturn of spend. So like I I went in
front of company and said look all of us
made life decisions. We made decisions
to not become doctors. We made decisions
to not become nurses. like we we can't
help the health crisis here, but the
thing that we can do as our mission is
just make more small businesses get to
the other side of this than otherwise
would. Like let's try everything we
could. So, so we figured out overnight
how to extend credit to people and from
out of balance sheets and like all these
kind of things. And this wasn't clear to
us initially, but maybe should have
given the patterns. Well, if no one can
leave the house, e-commerce starts
playing a completely different role in
the world. So we just chucked out all
the plans and road map. All the work
that we did ended up being pointed at
like a thing that just gets businesses
to the other side without having to lay
off everyone. And it worked really
really well. We we doubled in a year. We
we we actually had the craziest
insane things inside of a company. we
had to like be on call with all internet
providers who were running auctions on
server capacity because like the world
couldn't produce more chips anymore. So,
so all the ones the computers that made
up the internet were all the computers
we've had for a while. It's like you all
had to kind of ration basically it
there's so many stories there but like
from a corporate way Shopify exploded
and ended up being very much talked
about and super proud of what we did
internally
basically almost fell apart. It was just
such a stressful time and so difficult
to manage and so many people decided
they're just like they've had enough. is
too hard and I had to do like live two
different lives externally and
internally and try to sort of I felt
like I kept a bomb from exploding by
just like trying to wrap it from all
directions and uh uh get my arms around
it. So that was a really really trying
time but also just kind of I think that
really really tested us. How much
customization can a store get through
Shopify? You should not be able to tell
that you're interacting with a Shopify
store like they look completely
different. Again, sovereignty is a word
I use a lot. It's like if if you don't
have ability to make, you know, the
design or the look of it feel anything
like your vision, then I would feel as a
failure as Shopify even if you continue
using us because our job is never to
constrain you. The seller the thing
that's under our control is that we want
to go and make it so that you can be as
creative as you can. Do you have
competitors?
I mean, for a while people made a lot of
uh shop from Amazon being competitors
and um Do you think of Amazon as a
competitor? No, I never did. I once ran
my mouth because I was starting to get
annoyed with a question. I I I said that
Amazon is trying to build an empire and
Chopify is arming the rebels and um
apparently turns out Jeff Bezos is a
very very big Star Wars fan and never
saw himself as Raiders. So like this
turns out to be a really really um
unbecoming analogy. So, so um uh and
then like it got quoted a lot and so
anyway, no I I think of Amazon as a
extremely worthy rival. I think
competition always feels like someone's
dying in the end, but a rivalry is a
wonderful thing because you get to
inspire each other to be better. These
days, we actually work super closely
together on many things. So, it's hard
to even make the rivalry. one of your
stores, let's say one of your biggest
accounts, had great success selling a
product, would you then ever manufacture
the same product to try to compete with
the person? We would never ever
manufacture a product. That would be
incredible. That's the difference
between you and Amazon, for example. I I
think even I don't know how much this is
actually cultural for Amazon even but
it's just a consequence of being a
marketplace because again the internet
of the '90s sorry to go back there but
like there's a bunch of idealism encoded
here in the way Shopify works because in
the '9s again I grew up in a very small
city nothing terribly interesting
happened ever I think Julius Sciza
founded it that was probably the most
interesting thing that ever happened
there so 200 years ago at some point the
internet came to town and then you sort
of explored this was this new thing. It
was fantastic. For the first time, you
could interact with people without
having to call into a radio show or
something with people who were like
everywhere in the world. And that was
like incredibly liberating. You could
serve a website to everyone and like
it's up to you. Like there's no no
license. Like I I I did I needed no
license to start Shopify. I I just had a
machine started to respond to requests
and it's it's it's an incredibly
liberating affair.
So it was promising an an incredible
decentralization of power and of
opportunity. And so unfortunately a lot
of aspects of the modern internet are
actually quite centralized, right? Like
so it's we we wound up with one search
engine and maybe two or three social
media networks all sort of kind of
different. There's one in every category
and the everything store literally,
right? And so they're obviously super
convenient because then there's a search
box you can type in exactly the widget
you want. you'll get it and you purchase
it and like that makes perfect sense and
maybe even is ideal but I come at it
from another perspective. I'm like,
well, what if we take the ideals of the
'9s, everyone has their own side and
everyone has is their own southern
individual and really explore that?
Would it work? And it turns out in in in
e-commerce is actually really really
valuable. It works. It works as well.
And so, it's almost a bit of a clash of
visions for how the internet works. And
now, people would argue Shopify itself
is a one big piece of software that
hosts all of them. Maybe that's also not
exactly the spirit of a early internet,
but fair enough. I think it's it's it's
an implementation of the same ideas.
Tell me about your relationship to
coding. I love coding. I mean, I I I sit
down a Saturday night when I have time.
Uh and I just like put headphones on and
I always have like a couple of things
that I want to get done. I just I it's
it's like my craft. What What are the
type of things you like to get done?
Sometimes I make games. There's there's
these things called game jams or jams in
general where like just people decide
from this time to this time we are
making a game and everyone should
comparing it's almost it's not even
there's no prizes it's just like a
convenient excuse for creating
constraints like creativity must have
constraints so I I love the artistry of
it like the only way to be a good
programmer is to be a a very very good
learner because you have to understand
the problem domain that you're trying to
solve so well that you can actually
write software against it. Like there's
so much wonderful things about it. It
fits my brain in a way that like I
almost can't access this sort of uh
creativity in in in any other way. So
anyway, I think it's deeply creative.
It's deeply interesting and it's uh like
it's it's a it's a wonderful craft by
itself. I personally use a Japanese
programming language which I found in
2004 when I could make all choices like
I you know my own company I can now use
really really weird things that I could
never use and then this programming
language out of Japan called Ruby that's
what I built Shopify in and again
because it it felt like when I was using
other programming language it always
felt like I wanted to paint like let's
say an oil painting but someone giving
me crayons it just there was a this
mismatch and then I found Ruby and I
like I found that my brain ran on Ruby
even before I knew of it. Right? So I'm
I'm using this language because it it
really feels uh like it like connects
with me at that level. How has AI
impacted Shopify? I consider myself so
incredibly lucky here because like again
I saw technology kind of grow up and
I've been part of this industry long
enough that I've seen when a new
platform came out with like we connected
all computers through internet and then
the phones came out which is was another
platform and it made things so
interesting. I didn't expect to have
another one of those. I think this is
the best. I always thought Shopify was a
company that sort of is a bridge between
the real world and the the sort of world
of the internet and technology because
really the software I make is so that
other people can help themselves to
everything that technology has to offer
for their own pursuits.
But like software was always pretty
autistic. It doesn't understand the
meaning behind anything or so it just
like it blindly follows. And I think AI
is increasingly allowing people to to to
have collaboration around intent
actually conversations that lead to more
creativity. And so with like you know
chatbots or conversationalist or so like
we see this it's it's it's deeply
integrated in our software we are super
excited about it. So so I think it's an
incredible privilege to actually have to
reinvent all software again. It's
certainly uh it's not daunting to you.
No, I love it. It's an opportunity.
Yeah, I don't like stasis. I don't know
know this for sure, but I would have
probably retired now if it wouldn't have
happened for AI. But AI gives me like I
I again I love the task I gotten myself
in life, which is I really deeply care
about values on Shopify and this kind of
idea. So I found my gifts early like
with programming. I cultivated them to
be hopefully very good at them and then
uh through Shopify I managed to give
them away which is I think really the
meaning in life is to share the gift
that you've cultivated and so the
technology capabilities coming there's
so much more we can do for people we
used to do a survey and I wish we would
have done it more and in the survey we
had lots of questions and one of them
sort of added on a whim was do you know
someone who within 24 hours would
respond to an email or a text message
about an entrepreneurial question and
the amount of people who said yes was
something was something like 70
something%. Then initially I was super
impressed by this because I I would have
imagined this would have been much much
lower right so then we had the idea of
let's try this in general population and
it turns out it was like 9%. And we like
okay well what's happening here very
simple what's happening here is that
only the people who know someone who has
done entrepreneurship actually try to
build businesses because otherwise it
just seems like impossible. So the model
having the model having someone having
demonstrated that's possible having
someone when when you run out of options
answer the question like it's so hard
like how do you incorporate something it
like who knows it's different depending
on where like you can't even read a book
about it. So now you sign up for
Shopify, you have like the thing called
sidekick. You can have a conversation
with it like infinitely patient, super
intelligent, knows everything about
entrepreneurship, can tell you how your
business is really doing and um do all
sorts of tasks for you and you you you
start out with a co-founder, right? Like
which is really beautiful and cost like
no equity. It's like just like there to
push you and so I I love all that. Is
there any advantage or disadvantage to
being based in Canada?
Canada had the perfect culture for doing
something like this when I started. And
I I if I would have been in Germany, it
would probably been too much. It would
be too frictionful. You would have to
like you have to like you need to start
$50,000 which I didn't have before you
can incorporate anything. So I call
Canada basically America for Europeans
like because it just like it's such a
it's such a fun mix of the two. So it
made it very easy. Then we started and
and built there and always found good
people.
I think there was advantages of not
being in Silicon Valley. Uh in fact for
commerce specifically in many ways it
made it harder but like Silicon Valley
really committed itself to making money
for advertising and it's such a good
business model to make money for
advertising that if you do anything else
you running out of time too quickly. You
can't make money fast enough. It's it's
so much slower to build something that
you charge money for like monthly like
Shopify. So I think there was some
advantages there and you know they did
this funny thing. I don't know if it's
how real it is but like I only realized
this years later. I'm curious what you
think about this. I would travel to
Satan Valley and then I would have
meetings with people and I would ask him
millions of questions about how to build
companies because I was trying to figure
it out and then I would write everything
down and try to figure out of which of
this makes sense and then I would
localize it if it's a good idea to
Shopify and I would want to implement it
and it took me a long time to figure out
in this conversation I didn't actually
hear the real answers to what other
people are doing. I I usually got the
highlight reel or actually the ambitions
of often I got the ideas they have that
they wish would be true and we're
currently working on and I compared that
to my average. So so so I compared the
highlight reel that I got from Silicon
Valley to what actually was going on in
the company. Then I implemented some of
those things. I ended up with a like
sometimes a better version much earlier
than anyone else on on these kind of
matters. And in in a way it actually
almost had faked Shopify into being a
better company than it could otherwise
been because if you would actually been
closer to everyone we would have a much
better model for what the companies
around us are actually like. It would
have made it more ordinary. Exactly. It
allowed us to just be uh in a way
extraordinary and different right like
there's value in difference of like
sameness is conversion. Exactly.
Absolutely. Yeah. If it's the same why
do it? Yes. Exactly. Yeah. like like it
is an axiom that if you want to be
better, you must be different because if
you're the same, you end up being the
same. This the way the sentence
continues and just finding different
constraints that like mean that you end
up different means that you have a
chance at being better because otherwise
you don't. So distance actually is more
valuable than people think. How do you
think growing up in Germany impacted
you?
I think Germany initializes your
acceptable minimum quality higher and I
think that's a good thing and a bad
thing in in a lot of ways like I I
remember going to uh the MoMA at some
point I think the one in San Francisco
and there was like a Dita Rams exhibit
uh he's a designer this wonderful
products for Brown and I loved it but it
looked like my house growing up right
just like this all these beautiful
objects were like that's literally the
LP player and the coffee machine and the
razor my dad used. Like we were I think
it's harder to create a product in
Germany and get market acceptance
because the minimum quality bar that
people accept is higher. Like you
cultivate tastes I think in a way that I
think is also important. And then coming
to North America and working in Canada
where people are much more hey let's put
an MVP out. The confluence of those two
things is like yes but is it good? Yes
it can be minimum viable. I push people
to uh call it minimum lovable product.
Like what's the like what's what's
something that actually someone might
actually love if it turns out to be
good. And um I think that ended up
making a difference. How do you think
about that? That sounds good. I think we
can know what the bar is for us, but
it's very hard to know what the bar is
for someone else. Yeah, but you
cultivated a incredibly wellrefined
taste. something passing your quality
bar is an asset test that it's high
enough in the market at le if it if it's
high enough for you it's probably high
enough for for everyone that doesn't
mean it's going to be successful no and
also and the opposite is like often I
would miss things that ended up being
very successful just because that looked
similar to something I saw when I was
younger and didn't seem so revolutionary
now and but to the people at that time
it was revolutionary you Yeah.
[Music]
LM NT
element electrolytes.
Have you ever felt dehydrated after an
intense workout or a long day in the
sun? Do you want to maximize your
endurance and feel your best? Add
element electrolytes to your daily
routine.
Perform better and sleep deeper. Improve
your cognitive function.
Experience an increase in steady energy
with fewer headaches and fewer muscle
cramps.
Element electrolytes. Drink it in the
sauna.
Refreshing flavors include grapefruit,
citrus, watermelon, and chocolate salt.
Formulated with the perfect balance of
sodium, potassium, and magnesium to keep
you hydrated and energized throughout
the day, these minerals help conduct the
electricity that powers your nervous
system so you can perform at your very
best.
Element electrolytes are sugar-free,
keto friendly, and great tasting.
Minerals are the stuff of life.
So visit drinklmntt.com/tetra
and stay salty with element
electrolytes. lm nnt.
How many employees do you have now?
Shopify is um 8,000 people about half
half in Canada and United States. Yeah.
Public company $120 billion market cap
kind of thing. How did the business
change
when it went public?
I think it just got better. Like we
weren't public so early. I This is
another one of us like everyone Silicon
Valley was always telling me go go
public as late as possible and I just
couldn't find it. Like I tried to get
people to argue from first principles
for this idea and I I it it seemed very
derivative. It's like oh other people
are going public later is what I heard.
And that's what does that have to do
with you? Like that's the worst reason,
right? Like it's like so uh so I was
like again I I felt a certain um just
difference al like the institution of
being public again I want to share right
like I I like develop your gifts and
then I cultivated them and then then
share it widely like I had wonderful
investors and they all fully trusted me
right like 100% trust I could not build
more if I tried it's like battery
doesn't charge past 100%. I can get a
new set of private investors, but like I
think what's much better is become a
public company, have some people
hopefully early in their career make
bets on you and then we grow the company
together that's going to work well. They
are going to be successful and there's
going to be a kinship or like a
relationship that's being developed and
it worked perfectly this way. For some
reason, some people have the experience
of going public and feeling shackled by
the experience, but you didn't have that
experience. I mean I also like I mean to
be fair I should say that uh I I I just
retained control in a way that uh that
that helped um I I I started the company
I think Shopify at least while I'm there
would do very poorly if my job would be
have to become to be like sort of
consensus builder right like it just
because to me the consensus always finds
the least objectionable option right
what I want to do with building I want
to build things to me that comes from a
really big piece of software like
Shopify feeling like it's written by a
single author in the end, right? Like
it's not it isn't. It's thousands of
people working on it, but like there got
to be one consistent narrative style.
You can't switch perspective all of a
sudden. No writing styles in from one
screen to the next. And so in the same
thing with a company, if again even
investing in a company is a vote. If
you're voting with your investment money
for a company and you want to
participate uh in in the value and that
is a company run by their founder, I
think what you want is that founder to
be in control of a company because
that's what you don't want. You you will
need to someone very different like
let's let's call them founder run
companies and managerial run companies.
Managerial run companies the job of CEO
is totally different. the job is to
create a plan. Like the the the CEO
doesn't actually have the legitimacy to
decide exactly what the company does.
People think so, but it's not actually
like that. The legitimacy is a uh is a
thing that's built. And what the CEO
does, it creates with stakeholders a
plan and then creates legitimacy in the
plan and the plan is then followed by
everyone. Like it's it's the plan that
has the authority. The CEO just has
ability to influence the plan heavily.
That also makes these companies very
very hard to adjust, right? Like so if
you want to pivot or something, you need
to make a new plan and explain why you
didn't screw up with the last plan,
right? So this is why large companies
often have a hard time incorporating AI
quickly or something like this or during
co found companies are different. the
fact that the slot is filled that the
person is there who has all in my case
the 20 almost 21 years of being there
for every decision every step every step
I can talk with great authority to what
the Shopify way is about something what
like how to make this like and therefore
when co happens the day that happened or
when AI comes out I'm actually not
beholden to the road map because the
road map exists because it's comes from
figuring out what the exact best things
are to work on right now. But if
reality's changed that is clearly no
something different because otherwise
reality didn't actually change. I think
they underappreciated how different they
are founder run companies and and
managerial run companies and neither is
better than the other. Like in fact in
most business sectors I think founder
run companies are mess like they were
hot mess of chaos and hard to predict
and they're harder to work for and like
things change on a dime. For the right
people this is the best. They love this
energy. They love the um ability to
creatively impact the entire thing. Like
just ideas matter in the best cases.
Like the best idea wins. Doesn't matter
who said it. But if everyone disagrees,
there's someone who can just say we are
going to go with the best idea and this
is it based on this kind of thing rather
than highest paid person said. So would
you say you trust your instincts? Yes. I
I think instincts are your entire life's
experiences rolled up and uh ready for
instant decision- making. I think people
should trust them more. It's just you
have to cultivate your the instincts.
You also have to learn a lot and like
sometimes people end up trusting all the
instincts and that's can can go poorly.
But like I think for like engineering
and for for for business and strategy
entrepreneurship as well. Yes, I trust
that instincts. Do you question
yourself? If you have an idea, do you
question is this going to work? How will
it work? All the time. I never am as
hard on anyone else's ideas as on my
own. I actually sort of discount my
ideas significantly because I I just
like the conversation. I work with
absolutely incredible people and the
worst thing that you can ever do as a
leader is like just like constrain the
upside, right? Like I I I want to raise
the floor by just navigating us around
just bad things that have been tried,
don't work, or won't work in this case
because I can spot those, but I don't
want to cap the upside. How difficult is
it to recruit people? I mean, the moment
you have like a bunch of like like 20
people in the company, you're really in
a people business, right? Like it's like
you're drafting the team. You're finding
great people. I I I've I've hired people
who have worked on for 15 years like
before. And is it hard? It's it's super
hard. The thing I found that makes it
really really easy is just be very very
clear about who you want and who you
don't want. I think people are not ready
enough to like I almost talk people out
of coming to Shopify sometimes. I I just
explained look this is again founder and
company therefore if you come from
semens and you're very very used to
everything being just like operationally
fantastic none of that stuff happens
here right we are just like we a company
where like we try our very best but
every once in a while someone people
have to put on their cape and be heroes
and that's the way it works yeah so what
are your reading habits my uh wife is in
a completely different circadian cycle
for to me like I'm an I would be a night
all if I would let me So, um, and she's
a light sleeper, so uh, we we're both in
bed at 10:00 and, uh, I read till 1:00.
So, it's gives me wonderful, uh, time. I
have my Kindle, which doesn't cause too
much light so she doesn't wake up. And I
mean, I I read sometimes fantasy. I I I
make it so that every every third book
has to be a book that I think I will
would disagree with is one of my things
which has been a fun habit. I tend to to
read books that are older. Uh, at this
point actually Marson has gotten me on
this just like I I I was like I read too
many current issue books which are all
the same book in the end and I was
complaining to him and he said just like
just read books that people recommend
that are more than 40 years old and uh
then you only read books that stood the
test of time. So that's been that's been
actually wonderful habit for past recent
years. What are the kind of things you
like to learn about? I think everything
is interesting. I've never found
anything that's not interesting. I teach
this to my kids. Uh I no one of my kids
like allowed to say uh that uh anything
is uninteresting. They can only say this
isn't interesting to me yet. So which is
actually a wonderful way to do it. I I
mean obviously I I study excellence like
I just love reading about excellence in
every other field. Uh I love
biographies. I I also try on different
hobbies like if if someone I really like
admire has a hobby which sounds
surprising to me, I try it on. I really
really really got into motorsports which
has just been so incredible. Like I call
it I call Zen Buddhism at 200 miles per
hour. It like it just focuses me in a
way nothing else seems to be able to do.
Like I I do endurance racing. Endurance
racing driving. Driving. Yes. So um
what's an endurance race? Driving. How
long is that? Uh like uh the most famous
race is the 24 hours of Lar. And um
yeah, you do that with a team of three
people. I'm training for doing it next
year. This year I've done a 24-hour race
at Daytona with um with a team is the
hardest thing I've ever done. I was
delirious driving at like 2:00 a.m.
after already having driven for like 4
hours with 61 other cars. So that's one
of the most beautiful things about
motorsport is that you do it like
amateurs and pros together. There's no
tournaments where you can play with the
best tennis players, right? Like as well
because it's too much of a weak link.
But in motorsport you, one of the free
drivers is an amateur. So if you're a
fast amateur, you can go find fantastic
pros who you can then learn from and
there's always so much to learn. And
yeah, I just love doing difficult things
with interesting people. So with the
through line in my life, so it's a
wonderful Does the fact that it the
consequences are dire play a big role? I
think so. I I I didn't even have a
driving license in Canada, right? So I
just had one Germany and then it's
expired. I never never drove it. Just
like I don't even know if I truly love
cars, but like I uh I got invited to
like a track day and friends just pulled
me with them and it's like and then um
they put us in these cars and sort of
gave us instructions and um they let us
go on a track and
then they immediately pulled me in on
like two laps later and I thought I did
something wrong but then they show they
told me my tank of gas was empty. It was
40 minutes later. I'm like, how? You
thought you just started you like lost.
I I lost like this has never happened.
Like it like was just incredible in this
way. So you were so concentrated in what
you were doing, time stopped
essentially. Yeah. Because what I
realized is like racing is there's a
perfect lap time out there, right? Like
it's it's physically possible to
calculate this I I imagine. And the
actual lap time you get is the sum total
of like all your inadequacies as a
driver, right? Like, so it's like you're
competing against yourself. You're
competing against a track. The other
cars are actually obstacles to to to
this, but you get this immediate
feedback after every turn. You know,
like you just you feel it. You you
connected for your ass to the car, to
the ground, to feeling all the movements
in the car. You're you get the lap time
at the end and you just know if you did
well and you you you know that you're
getting better and you're connected to
the ground at the bottom of the tires.
uh like it's basically four playing
cards of contact patches. That's all.
And from them, you ask, you can ask up
to 100%. If you ask any more, it's bad.
You don't want to. You're trying to get
this close to 99.999%
of what the grip can do. And then you
invest it either in going straight or
into turns. And so it's like it's
immediate feedback, visceral, high
adrenaline skill building. So that's
wonderful. So I love it. Do you feel
like every lap you're aiming to get the
perfect lap?
over and over again. You're chasing
something, right? You're chasing this
thing that's like just elusive. And
again, you have to accept that you
cannot drive perfectly. It's I find that
incredibly motivating. I'm I I have
never been externally motivated. Oddly,
I've always been internally motivated. I
I I just believe we've meet the the
person we could have been at the end of
our lives. Yeah. And and and the point
is to try to minimize the difference,
right? Like so like this is kind of why
what else is there that is you cultivate
your sets of skills and then along the
way you share them again. Would you say
you spend most of your time in your head
or in your body?
In my head to me self is sort of camera
at abstractor like analyzing the day the
situation like again how can I show up
better tomorrow. It's the types of books
I am I'm drawn to are the ones that talk
about these kind of things. It's uh
growth is good.
How does being an engineer
impact you as a CEO?
I think engineering is a great
preparation for it. Good companies are
complex adaptive systems. Uh there's a
good deal of game theory in incentive
system design.
Engineering is like how to get a large
system to end up doing the thing that it
is supposed to do, right? Like it's like
that's basically what you get computers
to do. Especially the kind of engineers
like I I did a lot of like sort of
internet and network engineering where
like this might be too much in the weeds
but like the moment there's a network
cable you don't know if a thing that you
send on a wire will arrive on the other
side. So you actually have to build the
system with like in such a way that it's
self-healing right like you have to
build a system that like if something is
out of order if a packet doesn't arrive
but it can recover from that. I think
that's sort of a really odd esoteric way
of talking about it, but I think knowing
how to build complex systems that
orchestrate together and to to run like
a global e-commerce platform that heal
themselves in with unforeseen hard to
predict uh uh problems actually is kind
of pretty amazing preparation for
building companies because you they
happen to also be very nondeterministic.
So, it's pretty good.
In a world of artificial highs and harsh
stimulants, there is something
different, something clean, something
precise. Athletic nicotine.
Not the primitive products found behind
convenience store counters. Not the
aggressive buzz that leaves you jittery,
but a careful calibration of clean
energy and focus clarity.
Athletic Nicotine. The lowest dose
tobaccof free nicotine available. Made
entirely in the USA. No artificial
sweetener, just pure purposeful
elevation. Athletic nicotine is a
performance neutropic.
Athletic nicotine is a tool for shifting
mindsets. Athletic nicotine is a partner
in pursuit of excellence. Slow release.
Low dose. Gradual lift. Sustained
energy. Soft landing. Inspired results.
Athletic nicotine. More focus. Less
static. Athletic nicotine. More clarity.
Less noise. Athletic nicotine. More
accuracy. Less anxiety. Athletic
nicotine. From top athletes pushing
their limits to artists pursuing their
vision, Athletic Nicotine offers the
lift you've been looking for.
Learn more at athletic
nicotine.com/tetra
and experience next level performance
with Athletic Nicotine.
Warning, this product contains nicotine.
Nicotine is an addictive chemical.
Tell me about efficiency.
When do we benefit from efficiency and
when is efficiency not a good thing? I
used to talk a lot about efficiency and
I think it's it's still the right way to
get at it because people are more
familiar. But I'm actually more very
against waste and it's actually a
different thing. Like to me like wasting
things is just like it's a crutch for
your craft. Like I I think great
craftsmen like make the most out of what
they got. Yes, those things can also be
described as being inefficient, but it's
actually not the inefficiency that's
offensive to me. It's just like actually
the waste that's produced because that
ends up being like especially it usually
accumulates and then has very high
interest. I mean, I think the ideal
thing to do to build is something that's
beautiful all the way through including
the processes and therefore which aren't
wasteful and efficiency is almost a a
secondary property of that. And then
there's times where you just need to be
just step out of this because you're
doing something that's only needed once
and then it just like kind of doesn't
matter, right? Like sometimes you just
need to do really unscalable things to
do it. Like action causes information
and instead of going and building an
entire like piece of software, just
pretending that it exists is like a
really good thing. Like startups learn
this, right? Like they just like put
something in the market which might just
be a landing page and they only build it
when people are actually uh interested
in. I got so lucky. I built all of
Shopify before I told anyone about it.
Like I imagine it would have been wrong.
I mean it kind of was. I I I sort of
like ended up like doggedly pursuing it
and eventually making it good. Um but uh
yeah. So what's your relationship with
efficiency?
Well, I too don't like waste, but I
understand that in the process to get
where you're going to get to the best
sometimes the time aspect of it is not
in your control. That's right. And
sometimes the number of iterations it
takes to get it right is not really in
your control. Totally. So it's not
inefficient to do a 100 versions. Yeah.
If you're hunting for this thing that's
world class, it is where it gets tricky
even talking about efficiency. Right.
So, so like I can tell you the way I
loved to write code with my colleagues
uh early like my sort of philosophy on
on code is like for every problem
there's probably a 100 lines of code
that solve it extremely elegantly and no
one in the world smart enough to find
those. So we end up needing
5,000 lines of code to to actually uh
like giving skills issues and maybe to
make it readable enough to other humans
um who will end up having to make
changes in to the future. And sometimes
people do hundreds thousands or millions
of lines of code for something like this
and that's inefficient. In order to find
those what we've done is we set
ourselves constraint. We we just loved
these constraints where we said okay we
are going to build this feature and we
start in the morning and we pair program
two people in front of computer. We sort
of keyboard back and forth and at the
end of the day we would throw away our
code and we would ship the feature the
day that we could implement all of it in
the day and it would fully work at all
the way to the end and that just meant
we ended up like really learning about
the proton domain. So this is similar to
what you say to me that's incredibly
efficient because I want the efficiency
in the product. I don't I think the
process people should not talk about
efficiency to find the serendipity that
leads to the best possible insight and
you can't know you're like sometimes
you're just a vessel for the right idea
coming right like you can help
serendipity by just like really deeply
understanding the the problem which you
explore through code well sometimes or
not understanding it at all is the other
way because sometimes coming at it from
that's true not knowing what's possible
allows you to do things yeah yeah I did
not know that the world hated
e-commerce. Like everyone lost a lot of
money doing no one was going to invest
into like e-commerce software, right?
Like I just I just didn't know. I also
didn't know that it's usually like a
couple hundred people working on it. I I
just tried it and I used a better
programming language than everyone else,
at least one that fit me and then it it
worked, right? It happened. Tell me the
difference between hiring someone who's
very experienced versus smart beginners.
Okay. So there are two kinds of
intelligences I think. Yeah, there's
like fluid intelligence and then there's
of crystallized intelligence, right?
Like so it's describe the two. Fluid
intelligence is essentially the sort of
curiositydriven like I want to figure
this out. It's just like how quickly can
you pick something up? How how are you
like do do you like playing with ideas?
Like I in my interviews with people I I
try to find a thing that they're very
passionate about and then ask them about
I I make changes to what they're
passionate about in such a way that they
have to like like reimagine something
like like if someone is like really into
soccer for instance I'm like okay we all
wake up this crazy thing happened
Earth's core stopped rotating quite as
quickly and gravity is now.7
of a G. So 30% less
which positions in the game of soccer
end up being more important right like
so and I have no idea what the right
answer is but I want to play with ideas
right that's that's fluid intelligence
in in in this moment I love that then
there's crystallized experience which
really is wisdom if you've been
programming for a long time you've
picked up a lot lot of patterns you know
what not to do you in in so many
situations you can say the words oh this
is another one of those and uh already
have an idea for how to solve it because
you've encountered the problem before.
I'm making this distinction because this
distinction is actually invisible in a
very very very profound way day-to-day.
When you work with your colleagues, it's
like your colleagues are incredibly
helpful to have in a project, but you
don't know what side it's coming from.
What happens though is that again in the
world of AI, like just AI comes and
suddenly everything is new. Suddenly the
patterns end up not actually mattering
so much. And I had these incredibly
interesting experiences where like some
of our you know best engineers will we
put on the projects that really really
really need to succeed and we put them
on really really really need to succeed
AI projects and they kind of didn't
contribute and they're like well hold on
why is that happening and then we put an
intern on it and it just everything just
goes incredibly well and so I think
what's the magic is the people who end
up just doing both because unfortunately
what I've observed in these 20 years um
of building Shopify is that some people
are okay with the overall amount of
intelligence they bring to bear to be
the same and slowly it all converting
from fluid to crystallized. They are
day-to-day just as helpful but they've
stopped cultivating their skills, right?
They stopped reading the books, they
stopped tinkering with new technologies
and you just don't know and then
everything changes and suddenly you find
out very quickly. But some people keep
it and then they compound and that's
like just you when that happens it's
just magic, right? Like people who are
like deeply curious but also know a lot
are just like there's no better thing
than uh it's intoxicating working with
people on on on new problems like this.
Um and so uh those are the people I I'm
incredibly drawn to. What is chaos
engineering?
Well, that's a solve for things being
too derivative, too static. Like I think
stasis is death. When when things are
static, that means you're not advancing.
And if you're not advancing, that means
you're sliding soon, right? Like
backwards usually. And so, okay, what's
chaos engineering? Well, chaos
engineering has a fun history like
where, you know, again, this incredible
thing that like so many millions of
people trust us with their livelihood is
very real. And then there's downtime
because some piece of hardware failed.
And um everyone is going, "Well, look, a
piece of hardware failed. It's an act of
God, so to speak. It just happens. I'm
like, well, if it happens, then that
means we have to engineer around it,
right? Like, so we we we have to build
the redundancies to make that not affect
the system.
And u you know what I hear back is like,
but it's just hard to test because it
happens rarely. I'm like, cool, let's
make up potential failures. Yeah. So, I
log into our server farm and turn off
servers and like I just started doing
that. Um, and it was better than doing
it when something fails. it usually is
at night and then pages sometimes are
slept through and then suddenly you have
real problem. So um let's make this
actually happen more frequently because
if if failure is more common, it's
actually easier to reason about. It's
actually bad that failure is rare. If
it's a real part of a system, you want
it to be frequent. So um initially this
was I did this manually and you get good
at solving the problem. Exactly. You
build you you just know what's years
later actually wrote a fantastic book on
this exact thing called antifragile. He
sort of coined a name about for for this
kind of thing. He said like, "Hey, after
you break a bone, after it heals, that
part of a bone is the strongest part of
a bone, right?" Like, which and and no
language on planet Earth actually has a
word for that kind of thing. No, no
culture has discovered that certain
things get better by by by breaking them
uh or disrupting them, even though the
concept is clearly all around us. So, PS
engineering. So, so uh I mean very
quickly the uh operations people figured
out that they can just set alerts on me
logging into servers. So, so they they
had plenty of warning and then that so
but we we encoded into the system. We
ended up like building a random thing
that something failed more frequently
like it became a thing and then
eventually I I kind of loved it so much
as a thing but I wanted it in company
because I also don't want things to be
too static. Yeah. Right. So you don't
want every day to be the same because
that's like boring. Boring. Yeah. like I
mean so like we just come up with
annoying stuff to do like it's like we
had like um use uh your mouse with your
non-dominant hand days like just like I
just like it's such a move now
to fix challenges. Yeah. Yeah. Just like
today you have to put your mouse on the
other side of a keyboard and just like
uh like you just have to make do like
it's that that's by by the end of the
day everyone's quite good at it, right?
Like um what are some other ones besides
left hand? best thing we did and and
this is like I I I feel extremely lucky
that this happened. We were in a
negotiation with we had some possible
landlord. Eventually he threatened us to
to just kick us out uh out of like into
our office, right? Like and um we were
already starting to you know we were
going to build another office because we
were outgoing this one and um we were
kind of getting pretty tired of finding
him passed out every night and on some
couch somewhere. this like this entire
thing like so this kind of didn't the
situation with our landlord did not work
for either side then we like what would
we actually do if we would be kicked out
right like and and um DM my co-founder
said well we should really have a plan B
for this like we should know what to do
let's think about this and we sort of
said okay let's have a session let's
think about what we actually do and by
the end of the session we like you know
let's make that plan a like so we sent
everyone an email the next weekend that
FOBs wouldn't work in the office for the
next month and we all work remotely now.
Like to build some empathy with a few
people who work remotely to us, we just
shut down the office. This was in 2016.
I mean day one was no one got anything
done. Turns out some people didn't even
actually have reasonable internet. So
they went to each other. Our interns, we
used to serve lunch. So some of our
interns were completely dependent on
this and almost starved. So um we had we
had one cook in the company. He asked if
he can buy a taco truck, an old one, and
just like drive sandwiches to people.
So, everyone kind and then some people
met in coffee shops. Everyone kind of
made it work. Like, by by day three, we
were cracking. So, that was really cool
and a cool experience. And then a couple
years later, CO happened and we like,
we trained how to do this. We
trained for this. We knew we we we had
our systems were so well set up for this
eventually because we figured out how to
have a culture that actually understands
etiquets about like video calls and like
we we had this all kind of figured out
and and so some of these things ended up
being really really really bearing for
our culture. Another good thing is we we
randomly delete meetings reoccurring
meetings. We often delete all of them uh
every year and a half or so just like we
we figured the good ones come back and
the bad ones no one wants to tell the
person who started it that it's a bad
meeting. So we just like it's like a
garbage collection thing. It's like no
meetings just like delete them all.
Yeah. And uh I mean if it's a meeting
with an external person it stays of
course but like all internal meetings
get deleted. Um and and people hated it.
Now it's like people cheer like they're
so happy. It's like it's like completely
unstructured time for actually doing
their craft, right? What are some of the
requests you've made of your team that
would likely not have come from other
CEOs? I mean like I I really tried
basically everything at some point like
when we started a company I again I
didn't take a salary for a long time but
everyone who got salary earned the same
amount of money like we started
basically straight up communism. It's
funny to think about this now, but like
I think deriving some of the capitalism
values from first principles is also a
good thing, good exercise. Um, and then
I read a book actually a paper at some
point called the tyranny of
structuralness. It was fascinating. I
think it was like about the 1960s
feminism movement, but basically like
the thing they analyzed wasn't
important. What it basically said is a
hierarchy always exists is what it said.
The only choice you have is are you
documenting it or not documenting it?
And then it made the case that
documenting it was way better for
everyone. You know, I just really really
changed my mind on on on some of these
things. And so I I don't even know if it
was that interesting, but what I really
loved was this idea of some things are
simply true and the choice that you make
is are you documenting it or not? And I
I I found I document. Sometimes that
means I have to tell people inconvenient
things.
But I it's just more honest, right? Like
so recently like I I this is a memo
which a bunch of people have read uh on
online where they just like they just
said like look using AI reflexively to
solve problems is a baseline
expectation. Now you like two and a half
three years in AI tools are around
just play with them and and try them and
if you find they can help you with some
with something that's valuable to you
then that's good. And you know there's
always early adopters like me who are
just like try a thing, right? Like
that's but then some people are really
resistant. Some people are like well
I'll wait and see. And I think that's
actually that's pretty optimal. I I
actually don't think it's terribly
efficient to like try absolutely
everything. That's a lot of work. Like
in the same way I'm now reading books
that are 30 years old, right? Like let's
let's do the things that stand the test
of time. But I think in performance if
we have someone who uses AI a lot and
well
and someone who's just at good at their
craft but doesn't the person who's using
AI for instance in engineering is just
like significantly more productive
how do we think about this in terms of
performance management and like the only
correct answer here is well that affects
things like so that person who isn't we
need to tell them
that that's what they compete with now,
right? Like because if if no one says,
"Hey, this expectation is set now, then
suddenly their career goes away or or
isn't going as well as it should based
on their skill and that's unfair." So
anyway, send send a memo about this and
just like explain this and uh apparently
that captured the imagination. So
interesting. How was it received?
I mean, yeah, like internally everyone's
like, "Oh, that's cool." And I I I mean
it has some language about before you
ask for grow headcount try it with AI
first and you know so the media did an
entire construction out of this about
this being a layoff notice which it
really wasn't I just want people to have
instances of playing with AI we create a
lot of internal tools just sort of
activis we teach we have channels we
have gettogethers there's an evening AI
tinkering fest now that people have put
together just like it's actually our
non-engineers who have taken the the
call the most the just incredible things
coming out of sales team. So it's like
it was a unmmitigated success inside of
a company because it it shared the
excitement with AI because well if it's
expected I should probably get on this
and turns out you know the funny thing
about AI at least the large language
models is fundamentally you communicate
with them right you you write to them we
call it a prompt but really it's like
it's a document a conversation you tell
them to do something and you provide
context
you know who isn't very good at
communicating it's usually the engineers
right so in a in a lot of ways it's
actually a wonderfully uh democratizing
a life skill. Yeah. Like there's a lot
of fantastic communicators in every
group of a of a company and they are
really having a moment to shine because
they they can just like describe how to
be helpful for this thing and then it is
Have you experimented with vibe coding?
Yes. I I I love the name actually. I am
now aspiring to cause vi
entrepreneurship or vision growing or
whatever. It's not as catchy. you know,
you've been you've you've become like a
spirit animal to the um to to the VIP
coding movement. It's so ridiculous. You
the picture is so perfect with like the
headphones. It's fantastic.
Um yeah, VIP cording is real. It's
funny, right? Like programming is very
much early in this, right? Like, and I
love programming. I also love
programming with AI. It's like feels
exactly like back in the day when I was
working with friends, two people in
front of a monitor. Now I have like
someone who has always time and we can
do it together and have a second person
looking quote unquote person looking
over my shoulder. Some programmer is
also just toilet some. It's like it's
just a lot of like reading a lot of
documents and learning an API. I just
like it just knows it. It's wonderful.
So So you gave an example of writing
that note to the staff and then the
media misrepresenting it. Yeah. And have
you been misrepresented in any other way
over? I mean like there's lots of
history there. Like Shopify is a
platform. We the we like white tent. We
had like you know 2016 we had the the it
was Elizabeth Warren. It was Hillary
Clinton and Donald Trump campaign stores
on Shopify right like in every and and a
lot of internal constination with that
like people wanted us to commit to being
a uh two to site and I thought it was
quite ridiculous that uh like I I didn't
think there should be a sort of a
liberal Shopify and a conservative
Shopify. Um that seems ridiculous. Other
than by law, are there any censorship
rules that you have of what you won't
put on Shopify? Yeah, there are um
there's an acceptable use policy which
is I think sort of a conclusion that a
lot of industry has gotten to. These are
living documents. They they have to
change because divisiveness or edgginess
maybe edgginess on a spectrum like my
pirate uh poker set is probably like
it's probably not zero because poker
might be seen as gambling. So like let's
put it like.1%
on readiness, right? So this has always
been something it has to be a living
document. You have to kind of create
acceptable use policy, but you do also
have to have a big tent in some
intestinal fortitude to deal with this
because these are usually valuable
societal conversation. As long as
there's no harm implied at which point
it's like like the laws are very clear
and we act super fast. This is another
area where AI is so fantastic. we can
hold very sort of complex cases up to
policies and decide super quickly. So
the internet is just kind of really
getting much better because AI it was
insanely difficult to institutionalize
these things because these platforms are
so big. You're a service provider but
you're not a content creator. That's
right. We don't provide amplification.
Right. So so we don't make an editorial
decision. So we host. Now if people
purchase then uh like there's economic
value occurring to it and a lot of some
like a lot of people some people anyway
make the case that that's like an act of
direct support. That is a hard case to
make in my mind. Well, you don't support
any of the things that are on the
platform. Right. Exactly. We are a
hosting provider. We like a street. Like
we are not terribly unlike the streets
that were used by the FedEx truck or the
FedEx truck itself. Right. Like it's
just like it's it's infrastructure. So
anyway, at least this is the way we we
see it. Smart people can disagree uh
about these things. There's no perfect
answer to this. It's so we do our best.
Yeah. Well, it seems like if it's
against the law, that's a fair Yeah,
that's easy. That's a clear line, but
anything beyond that seems difficult.
This is what we like I think society
should make this choice. I think that's
the right process because yeah, like it
should be well debated and what you look
for is to find the best set of
trade-offs. What are some accepted
assumptions you've questioned when
building something new?
I love uh just invalidating assumptions,
you know, just again we started all of
one single salary and that became pretty
untenable very quickly. So um there's a
long history about it. I I I used to
think that I can convince people to just
like when something went wrong, my first
reaction initially was that I would talk
to people about why this went wrong and
like would just sort of like try to get
them to like do things differently and
like I mean there's some of that but
like I actually think like there's
there's almost two different visions for
human like it's like that we are like
perfectable and that we are like not and
if you if you accept that we're not what
it does is that you you get inspired to
just find for a best set of trade or
spend building a company and just like
it's like I really had to change my mind
on this but now I really really love it.
I I'm like look I think everyone is
allowed to be an intelligent actor in a
local incentive system. If my comp plan
is stupid and there's a activity that
like overpays even though it doesn't
like I'm like good for you. You hack the
system. Let's go. Right. Like it's my
job to make a system that's good and
that's an interesting game, right? Like
that's much more interesting. So I used
to think that people had figured out how
to build good companies. I definitely no
longer think so. I think all companies
are terrible, including mine. I think we
will figure out in the next 20 years how
to build good companies, but we are all
going to be terribly embarrassed by the
companies we used to run in 2020s and
and I now see it as my uh goal in life
to be slightly less embarrassed by my
company than everyone else was retiring
with me at the same time. So I just
think companies are underststudied and
underappreciated. Like what else exists
that allows just a ton of fascinating,
deeply caring, uh, inspiring people to
just get to spend their day together
working on our things that then in our
case, we make tools. So those tools help
others, right? And it's just like it's
great. It's like it's companies are
technology themselves. And we all we
should all be glad that they I I know
they have a bad rep at times and because
sometimes, you know, they do dumb stuff,
but I I just like I love companies. I
think I think they're so cool. So I
think universities the only other thing
that's socially acceptable for you to
just like go all in on like researching
something, right? Like and if it wasn't
for university and for companies,
how do you actually channel your craft
into something over a very long period
of time aligning incentives? So, well,
tell me some of the things you've
changed your mind about over the course
of your life.
Oh, man. Like, that would be fun to
prepare for. That's I would love to
think more about that. Things I changed
my mind on. Like, I mean, I used to
think business is and now I
have to like like maybe it is, but like
now I'm invested enough that uh like I
can't can no longer claim that. I have
lots of strong opinions that I attempt
to hold weekly. I I I actually really
really love and people changed my mind.
I for instance like we were perfectly
officeentric cult culture. We built
amazing offices. My co-founder design
floor space. We open sourced them. They
ended up being like template for many
tech companies building their places and
just like we designed everything for
like serendipity and people just like
drawing people through the building and
like just making all these kind of
things. So I was like totally against
remote work and then co happened and um
I committed a company to just only
remote work right like so we probably
the largest remote company in the world
and uh people got real whiplash from
this but like I mean is it still remote
now? It's still remote I so since co
you've gone remote. We we have gone
remote. We um how many advantages and
disadvantages? Okay right off the bat
it's worse.
which is like I think I mean it's
probably surprising to hear from someone
who's committed for it. It's worse
because it's like the office does so
much for us. The community it's like you
ship something, you do something, you
you walk to water cooler, someone gives
you a fist bump, the afterlow of that
lasts weeks, right? Someone sends you a
fist bump emoji on Slack, you forgot
about it in a second. It just doesn't
hit you really like. So it feels muted
to do remote work in uh in in this way
or at least the bland version of it. So
it's harder. It's a little bit like
training for marathon at altitude I
suppose. Um I hadn't done that but
that's what people people say that's
really hard. I I believe them. So why do
you do it? Well there are significant
advantages as well and and it's a it's a
set of trade-offs that is uh is worth
doing for some companies in some cases.
In our case the problem was we like we
started in AutoCAD that was our biggest
office. We relocated lots and lots of
people there. But it's a small city,
million people. Um, end up having a lot
of great technology people, but never as
deep as like another city would be. We
had offices in Toronto and Montreal, um,
New York. So, we had this situation
where like everyone in the offices ended
up like going to rooms and usually
talking to other offices on the screen,
no one there like so often already. So
it was like this really weird form of
hybrid that just like felt worse than
all other options. And so what we ended
up saying okay we are going to be remote
by default now and we get really really
good at this. And this required just
like complete like I I I said don't port
the office online, port the internet to
the company, right? Like because on the
internet there's like communities of
excellence that are all remote. Like a
lot of the big open source software for
our world has been written by people who
actually never met. To make an even more
geeky analogy, like do you know what
World of Warcraft is? It's a video game
that uh I've heard of it, but I don't
play games. So like lots of people
playing together doing very complicated
things or like 40 people going doing
something very difficult requires a lot
of coordination there's real excellence
there's people doing something for first
time in the world and there's like
cultures of excellence that form online
with people who have never met each
other funny enough my wife is actually
ran of war guilt like like like so she
ended up having more um experience how
to run a remote culture than I did and
so I learned from her and so we were
like okay well it's been done.
Therefore, it's something we can figure
out. And and I think we did. And so now
we um the people who work for a company
can engage in like a really amazing
lifestyle design. Like some people
choose to move downtown, some people
choose to move to um out to the cottage
and uh it it's just like talent is
incredibly well distributed. And so it's
it's it's it's actually worked really
really well for us. Um, I still wouldn't
recommend it for everyone and I would
never recommend it to a new company like
especially these sort of early days
finding itself. Finding itself. Yeah.
Like we have lots of rituals such as I
mean once a year like next month we get
everyone for a week to Toronto including
from Japan and everywhere in the world
like just like for a week we just work
on a big industrial hall and we have
like a big creativity and like just
events and because building
relationships is very hard remotely but
if you're doing it deliberately you can
also make up for a lot of time by uh
just I mean this is why conferences are
great. How is your company structured
different than other companies? It's uh
very functional. Um I believe in craft.
You can be the best paid person in a
company as a crafts person. Like when I
use crafts person that means not
manager. So we think most companies have
too many managers, too many layers. All
our managers were hired as programmers,
designers first and then like because we
think it's it works best to work for
people that have full appreciation of
the crafts that you are yourself trying
to cultivate. This is just like not
usually done in industry and I just find
it's I don't understand how this works.
What size teams do you have? We we love
a team of four. This is our our
favorite. Like we start almost
everything as a team of four. And what
would the four team members be? Ideally,
we talk about T-shaped people. It's
basically people with a very wide set of
skills and one significant
specialization in a in the middle. It's
like programmers who also have hopefully
a good taste but also know enough about
design to point like an you know how the
internet works just like like sometimes
people have a law degree because they
they went later to the world of
engineering. So we put teams together
hopefully everyone has functioning
understanding of everyone else's job but
also therefore have a difference to
their specialization like we we love
teams that fall in love with the
problems. Uh we we just like I want them
to go and like if you're building a
point of sale software I want them to
ideally build it in someone's store. So
we will send messages to our customers
and say this is weird but like can we
rent space in one of your stores? It's
like can you just put like like an
office in there um and and where where
people can just talk to you about what
you need and work with you on these kind
of things. So um action causes
information. We love to just go and like
just just just start building and
ideally throw away what you build as you
understand the problem better just like
we discussed earlier. And then if a team
has to become bigger after about eight
or so we split it into subtasks and then
we have a we have a system that also
makes the remote thing work that it's
called GSD which literally stands for
get done and where every team is
like has a page of project and they do
updates and they can do that so they
don't have to have meetings with other
people about informing them how it's
going. just like everyone knows they can
go on GSD and and read and you can
follow projects and you have AI now
making briefs about all the projects in
one area. So you know just like avoiding
all this kind of things that distract
people who build things. So it's easy to
find out what's going on. Yes. Like it's
an active process. You're not like you
can't sit there and expect like the
operations team to book a meeting and
then brief you and everything that's
going on. It's at your fingertips,
right? So yeah, it's all available.
Yeah. Yeah. I I try to not do this sort
of corporate baby proofing that is like
exists in a lot of companies, right?
I've always found that especially the
companies that call themselves to be the
professional companies. When you look
inside, they look like when you go to uh
visit people who who just had their
first baby, right? Like it's like every
electrical outlet has like these things
in them and like all the corners are
around it and there's like baby gates
everywhere. It's like they're not moving
for 10 months, by the way. Like it's
just like they can't even get to these.
But like it it's funny because I know
why it happened. Yeah. But then if you
go to a professional company, they have
a dress code, you know, like that's like
what is that? You can't even trust your
people to dress. It's like it's amazing,
right? It's wild. We try to have not too
much guidance, but a huge amount of
tools. How would you describe the
company culture?
I mean, odd like like island island
island of misfit toys is just like it's
it's a random assortment of people that
are all united in that they're giving a
I think when you make a product,
people will feel it at some level other
than the conscious if the people who
created it give a and there's
nothing that uh allows you to fake that.
And so that's the thing that I think
unites us. The the beautiful thing about
Shopify is again you're making a product
that helps really inspiring people,
right? Like our customers are
incredible. And it's like I I worked
with a bank at some point and just like
I was so dismayed because I got the
sense that they treat their customers
not as their customers but rather as
their crop. There was like fees to be
harvested and that's like an adversarial
relationship with your customer. It's
like what the hell? That's terrible.
Yeah. So, best thing we can do for
becoming a bigger company, growing
tomorrow, is to make our customers today
more successful, right? Like they're
just like on the same side of the table.
And I don't need to go around and tell
everyone, hey, you need to talk with our
customers. They they want to do that
anyway. It's like it is really fun to
have a meeting about e-commerce with
Kardashians. It's just like really like
it's it's also by way they're incredibly
good entrepreneurs. immediately.
Of course, you've been incredibly
successful because you're insanely smart
and you just
the way you do anything is how you do
everything. Therefore, your e-commerce
strategy is absolutely mint and that's a
wonderful thing you find out. How has
the scale of your business positively
impacted the business?
Like again, I love the small teams. I
preach for small teams. We form small
teams. I would have imagined that I'm
going to grow Shopify to its size and
then I'm going to stop doing this and
then go work with a small team
afterwards because it's it seems
consistent. I no longer think so. Partly
because we figured out how to scale. I
think Shopify is and is often described
as the largest small company imaginable.
Um and I think that works quite well.
The awesome thing about scale is it is
such a gift to be able to be focused on
more than one thing because focus is
super important and usually at up to a
certain size it's either focused or
unfocused.
After a certain size you can actually be
focused on multiple things and that's
just is such a amazing um accelerant for
for you don't burn out because the
burnout comes from too much focus on one
thing. Agreed. And like our sort of
eternal theory of how to have the best
internal career with Shopify again you
can be an individual contributor for
life. We call them mastery levels. You
can just climb the mastery levels and
it's gives you more compensation and
career advancement. What we really
celebrate is when people like we call it
do the jungle gym like just take go from
one area like follow down some zipline
to a completely different area. Like I
have an intern Anna and she's like uh
like at some point she ran HR and now
then she did mergers and acquisitions
and then she joined product teams to
work on point of sale and and then
eventually like currently she runs real
estate for us. She's like Toby why do
you do this to me? Like why? It's like
well you're competent. You're just like
you like I I have problems. You like
solving problems. Let's go. like and
like for 15 minutes after Anna takes
over real like real estate which sounds
boring but you know this is some cool
real estate we have suddenly everything
is going well because she has this
perspective of all these parts of a
company and it's like that's that's also
contrary to how people think about their
career right so the beautiful thing is
when you get to build a company and you
you're as lucky to like like have it be
a success is you can try the
counterfactuals like there's multiple
forms of failure um and failures of
course when the war thing is like
financially a failure and um like let's
let's clear that bar but there's
actually almost a more profound failure
of like at 10 years or so you wake up
and you're like if you build a company
you wouldn't want to work for that feels
pretty dystopian right like in a way
because like there's so many companies I
would not want to work for why did I add
one why why is my life work to add one
more to the stack let's actually build a
company that's worth working for like
let's focus on craft and giving a
It's it's fine that this stuff isn't
quantifiable. It's fine that that sounds
dumb when you say it, but it's true. And
like maybe eventually it'll sound smart.
Then people figure out that it's
actually working. Would you say you have
a basic philosophy or is everything up
for grabs? No, I think I I have a basic
philosophy about quality. Um like I I
fundamentally believe no one sort of
operates on their full potential. Like I
think we all underperform our sort of
hardware. But I think helping people get
more out of whatever they got is like
like that's what tools do, right? The
difference between
modernity and 30,000 years ago is not
genetics. It's it's like the tools we
have, we can build houses, airplanes,
get to space, we have the internet. Um
we're tool builders as a species. Right.
So I I I think the best tools in the
world make people end up having been
more ambitious than they actually
thought they were. You see a possibility
that you didn't know was possible.
Exactly. You take it one step at a time.
I think we make too much about this sort
of like people need courage. People
should emphasize courage more than
ambition I think and they're very
different things. Ambition is an
outcome. Like it's like it's measured
based on actually a goal. People should
emphasize the courage and the habit to
to to support to the goal and to try
swing. Yes. Like a bias towards action,
right? Like it's like just do something
and have a courage to put something out
there, make something. If you don't make
something in life, you can only be end
up being defined by the things you
consume. And I think that's a different
existence. It's very interesting. So, so
we want more makers. That is my
philosophy. So causing that is a thing.
Shopify really is a missionbased
company. Some of our customers become
many multi-billion dollar businesses in
sales a year. One of our customers got
to billion dollars of revenue before us
did. Like we raised them and they won,
which is like the coolest thing ever.
And so and they started on Shopify. So
the heart is like all in causing
entrepreneurship and that just overrides
all other priorities and it turns out
over time that actually asks to the
right business outcomes too. Um and and
if it wouldn't that would be okay,
right? Like it's like because that's
prime directive. It does but it happens
to it happens to do it. Yeah. Which is
like I mean that's the like I this is
why I'm I feel so lucky, right? Like
because again I would have insisted on
it anyway.
Different religion.
[Music]
Tetragrammatin is a podcast.
Tetrogrammatin is a website.
Tetrogrammatin is a whole world of
knowledge.
[Music]
What may fall within the sphere of tetra
grammatin?
Counterculture tetra grammatin. Sacred
geometry tetra grammatin. The avantgard
tetra grammatin generative art tetra
grammatin the tarot tetra grammatin out
of print music tetra grammatin
biodnamics tetra grammatin graphic
design tetra grammatin mythology and
magic tetra grammatin obscure film tetra
grammatin beach culture tetrogrammatin
esoteric lectures tetra grammatin off
the grid living tetra grammatin alt
spirituality tetetrogrammatin the cannon
of Fine objects. Tetra grammatin. Muscle
cars. Tetra grammatin. Ancient wisdom
for a new age.
Upon entering, experience the artwork of
the day.
Take a breath and see where you are
drawn.
[Music]
Petraadin.com